1

Terms of service
1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1. Customers of the services of "Nova Poshta" LLC can be individuals, individual
entrepreneurs and legal entities (hereinafter referred to as the Customer).
1.2. The rights and obligations of "Nova Poshta" LLC and the Customer (hereinafter referred to
as the Parties) stipulated by these Terms of Service (hereinafter referred to as the Terms) arise
from the agreement concluded between the Parties.
1.3. The Terms and Conditions have been developed by "Nova Poshta" LLC in accordance with
the requirements of the current legislation to regulate the services of organizing the
transportation of shipments and providing a range of services related to the transportation of
shipments through the territory of Ukraine.
1.4. By handing over the shipment to "Nova Poshta" LLC for transportation, the Customer
confirms that he/she has read and agrees to the provisions of these Terms and Conditions in
force at the time of handing over the shipment for transportation, and undertakes to comply
with them regardless of the presence or absence of the Customer's signature on the express
waybill.
1.5. These Terms and Conditions are available for review on the official website of "Nova
Poshta" LLC novaposhta.ua (hereinafter referred to as the Site).
2.MAIN SERVICE
2.1. The main service is the organization of transportation of shipments across the territory
of Ukraine.
2.2. Types of basic services:
✔"Address-Address" - acceptance of the shipment at the Sender's address and delivery of
this shipment to the Recipient's address.
✔ "Branch to Branch" - acceptance sending fromthe Sender
at the branch in the city of the Sender and delivery of this shipment to the Recipient at
the branch in
the city of the Recipient.
✔ "Address-Branch" - acceptance of the shipment at the Sender's address and delivery
of the shipment to the Recipient at the branch in the Recipient's city.
✔ "Branch-Address" - acceptance of the shipment from the Sender at the branch in the
city of the Sender and delivery of this shipment to the Recipient's address.
✔ "Branch-Post Office" - acceptance of the shipment from the Sender at the branch in
the city of the Sender and delivery of this shipment to the post office in the city of the Recipient.
✔ "Address-Post Office" - acceptance of the shipment from the Sender at the address
in the city of the Sender and delivery of this shipment to the post office in the city of the
Recipient.
Subscribe to DeepL Pro to translate larger documents.
Visit www.DeepL.com/pro for more information.2

✔ "Post Office-Branch" - acceptance of the shipment from the Sender at the post office
and the city of the Sender and delivery of this shipment to the Recipient at the branch in the
Recipient's city.
✔ "Post Office-Address" - acceptance of the shipment from the sender at the post
office in the city of the sender and delivery of this shipment to the Recipient at the address in
the city
Recipient.
2.3. "Post Office-Post Office" - acceptance of the shipment from the Sender at the post
office in3

and delivery of this shipment to the post office in the city of the Recipient. Delivery of shipments
is carried out in accordance with the terms and at the rates specified on the Site on the day
of registration of the shipment.
2.4. For the purposes of these Terms, a shipment means cargo, documents or other property
(depending on the information declared in the relevant express waybill) accepted by LLC
"Nova Poshta" to provide the main service.
2.5. "Nova Poshta" LLC reserves the right to change the place of delivery in case of closure or
relocation of the branch, having previously informed the Customer.
3.REQUIREMENTS FOR THE DIMENSIONS AND WEIGHT OF THE
SHIPMENT
3.1. Branch network is a set of branches of "Nova Poshta" LLC that accept and deliver
shipments.
Branches are divided into the following types:
✔ Cargo department is a department where the actual and volumetric weight of
shipments (documents, parcels, cargo, pallets and tires-disks) is accepted/issued
weighing no more than 1000 kg per seat, with a length of no more than 300 cm and a width and
height of no more than 170 cm. The dimensions are indicated including packaging. In certain
departments, it is allowed to accept/deliver shipments with a maximum actual weight of no
more than 1100 kg per item, a length of no more than 600 cm and a height of no more than 220
cm.
✔ Post office - a post office where items (documents and parcels) with an actual and gross
weight of no more than 30 kg per
one place or on one express waybill and with a maximum length of one of the sides not
exceeding 120 cm, and each other side not exceeding 70 cm. The dimensions are indicated
including packaging.
3.2. A post office (with weight restrictions) is a post office where the actual and gross weight
of a shipment per express waybill with a maximum length of one side of the shipment of no
more than 60 cm is accepted/issued. The dimensions are indicated including packaging.
Information on weight limits at post offices is available on the Website.
3.3. The network of post offices is a set of automated self-service postal terminals
designed to issue and send mail without the participation of representatives of "NOVA
POCTA" LLC. The network consists of the company's own post offices.
The postal service accepts items up to 20 kg of actual weight per item, no larger than
40x60x30 cm and with a declared value of up to UAH 10,000. The dimensions are indicated
including packaging.
3.4. A pickup point is a format of a branch located on the territory of an operating business
(grocery store, clothing/household/building materials store, mini-market, pharmacy, etc.), which
only accepts or issues shipments with a declared value of less than UAH 15,000, weighing no
more than 30 kg per express waybill and with a maximum length of one side of the shipment of
no more than 120 cm. If the shipment is not received by the Recipient within 5 calendar days, it
will be moved to the nearest branch of "Nova Poshta" LLC.
3.5. For targeted service, shipments with an actual or volumetric weight of no more than 1000
kg per place and with a maximum length of no more than 300 cm, height and width of no more
than 170 cm are accepted/delivered. The dimensions are indicated including packaging.
3.6. Shipments that exceed the permissible limits in size or weight are accepted for
transportation only by prior agreement of the Parties.
3.7. Shipments in corrugated cardboard boxes that are joined together with stretch film and
tape are not accepted for transportation. It is allowed to combine up to three shipments into one
if the following conditions are met at the same time:4

✔ The contents of the parcels are textiles (clothing, fabrics, soft goods);
✔ total weight - no more than 10 kg;
✔ the parcels are interconnected by at least five layers of stretch film and adhesive tape,
which forms a single, integral package for the combined shipment.
4.REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENT PACKAGING
4.1. The packaging of the shipment must be proper and of high quality in accordance with
Appendix A of the Rules for Packaging of Shipment to these Terms and Conditions and ensure
the integrity of the shipment during transportation.
5.ITEMS PROHIBITED FOR TRANSPORTATION
5.1. Monetary funds (signs), including foreign currency and securities.
5.2. Firearms and pneumatic weapons and their parts, ammunition, bladed weapons, objects
imitating firearms and bladed weapons, other objects specifically designed for attack and
defense (brass knuckles, stilts, cans with paralytic liquid, gunpowder, etc.).
5.3. Hydrogen peroxide (hydrogen peroxide), acids, high-octane oxygen-containing
impurities (chemical compounds added to gasoline), as well as liquids and substances in
containers and other containers with hazard signs of classes 1 to 7 inclusive on the
manufacturer's label (sticker): flammable, combustible and explosive substances, radioactive
substances and other dangerous goods with appropriate labeling ("explosive materials and
substances", "pyrotechnic products", "gases", "flammable liquids", "substances capable of
spontaneous combustion", " toxic and infectious substances", " oxidizing substances"),
"radioactive materials", "corrosive and caustic substances", "other hazardous substances and
products").
Substances labeled with hazard classes 8 and 9 are permitted for transportation, except for acids
(regardless of concentration) and substances containing any amount of acid, hydrogen peroxide or
other chemical compound with oxidizing properties.
5.4. Cylinders with liquid and gas, including fire extinguishers of all types (except for empty
cylinders without a valve); cans/cartridges with propane, butane, isobutane and other
combustible gases.
5.5. Containers with liquids without a manufacturer's label (sticker) with information about
the name of the substance, its purpose, characteristics and storage conditions; with signs of
container damage, leakage or unpleasant odor; wrapped in corrugated cardboard, opaque film,
tape or other wrapping materials or packed in boxes (except for the manufacturer's
packaging with information about the name of the substance and its characteristics). If the
liquid (substance) is of chemical origin, hazard signs are required.
Chemicals with hazard class 2 and 3 markings are allowed for transportation in containers
(packaging) of the manufacturer:
✔ paints: in metal containers with a volume of no more than 10 liters (no quantity limit);
✔ aerosols and sprays cans з with paints, household construction,
cosmetics and automotive chemicals with a capacity of up to 1000 ml;
✔ medical, antiseptic, disinfectant and detergent products with an alcohol content of
up to 70% inclusive in plastic and metal containers with a capacity of no more than
10 liters;5

✔ Perfumes and cosmetics with an alcohol content of up to 70% in glass and plastic
containers;
✔ alcoholic beverages with an alcohol content of up to 70% in glass and other containers
with a capacity of no more than 5 liters;
✔ automotive (engine, transmission) lubricants without any container volume limitations.
5.6. Fluorescent lamps and other products containing mercury; asbestos and
products from it (pipes, slate, etc.).
5.7. Used batteries, including batteries for cars, motorcycles, and agricultural machinery.
New batteries for motor vehicles, motorcycles, agricultural machinery and other new
batteries with terminals covered with factory plastic covers (whether in the original
packaging or not) are allowed for transportation only to/from cargo departments or to/from
the address.
5.8. Animals, insects, animal remains, raw fur, human ashes.
5.9. Food products requiring a special temperature regime or with a shelf life of up to 5 days
(shelf life must be indicated on the package), chilled or frozen food, dairy products, berries
(except for vegetables, fruits and herbs that are packed in accordance with the Nova Poshta LLC
Packaging Standard). Refrigerated shipments in transport packaging that meets the
requirements described in Annex B to these Terms are allowed for transportation. Nova Poshta
LLC does not control the temperature regime during the delivery of such shipments. It may also
be restricted or prohibited to send shipments with vegetables, fruits, seeds, plants, ready-to-eat
food products of animal origin in areas where a special quarantine regime has been declared.
5.10. Medicinal products requiring special storage and transportation conditions (including
hydrogen peroxide), ethyl alcohol, veterinary immunobiological products.
The ban on transportation does not apply to the transportation/shipment of human biological
material in the form of a smear (including from the oral cavity); medical, antiseptic, disinfectant
and detergents with an alcohol content of up to 70% inclusive in plastic and metal containers
with a capacity of no more than 10 liters.
5.11. Narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors included by the Drug Control
Committee under the Ministry of Health in the list of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances,
their analogues and precursors subject to special control in accordance with the law.
5.12. Items that emit odors, are dirty, and may cause damage to other shipments or to
human or animal health (finished food, heavily soiled parts, items in oil or other corrosive
substances, bacteria and live viruses, toxic substances, etc.)
5.13. Other items prohibited by the current legislation of Ukraine (non-standard items that are
not included in any of the listed categories, but are prohibited for transportation by the current
legislation).
5.14. Labeling of dangerous goods that are prohibited for acceptance.6

Explosive materials
and substances
(class 1)
Gases* (class 2) Flammable liquids (class 3)
Substances capable
of spontaneous
combustion (Class 4)
Oxidizing substances (class 5) Toxic and infectious
substances (class 6)
Radioactive materials (class 7)
6.ANNOUNCED COST OF SHIPMENT
6.1. The declared value is the value of the shipment declared by the Sender in the express
waybill. The declared value must be equal to the real (market) value of the shipment
6.2. Restrictions on the declared value:
✔ shipments weighing up to 100 kg (inclusive) - up to UAH 399,999 (three hundred and
ninety-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine);
✔ shipments weighing more than 100 kg - up to UAH 1,000,000 (one million).
shipments to/from a post office - up to UAH 10,000 (ten thousand).
6.3. In case of doubt about the contents of the shipment and regardless of the declared value
declared by the Sender, a representative of "NOVA POST" LLC has the right to take a photo of
such shipment in order to upload the photo to the information system of "NOVA POST" LLC. 7

7.CALCULATION OF WEIGHT AND COST OF SERVICES
7.1. For a shipment, two types of weight are determined: actual weight and total weight for all
places in total.
7.1.1. The cost of transportation services shall be calculated according to the greater value of
the actual or volumetric weight in accordance with the tariffs for transportation services posted
on the Website.
The actual weight is determined by weighing the shipment on a scale.
The volumetric weight is determined by measuring the dimensions of the shipment using
the formula:
Gross weight [kg] = Length [cm] x Width [cm] x Height [cm] / 4000
or Bulk weight [kg] = Volume [m3] x 250
7.1.2. If the shipment has an irregular geometric shape (there are parts that protrude), the
volumetric weight is measured at the extreme points of the shipment's dimensions.
7.2. The weight of a shipment is determined after it is packed. The only exceptions are
shipments for which a type of packaging such as crate is ordered. The weight of such a
shipment is determined by the extreme points inside the crate. The weight of the shipment in
the finished crate of the Shipper is measured at the extreme points of the crate frame.
7.3. The following types and subtypes of shipments are available:
✔ "Documents" - items such as papers, postcards, letters weighing1 no more than 1 kg and
having the following dimensions: length - no more than 32 cm, width - no more than 23 cm
and height - no more than 2 cm.
✔ "Parcels" - shipments weighing no more than 30 kg (actual or volumetric weight).
✔ "Cargo" - shipments weighing more than 30 kg up to 1000 kg (inclusive of actual or
volumetric weight) per place, no more than 300 cm long, no more than 300 cm wide
no more than 170 cm and a height of no more than 170 cm.
✔ "Tires and wheels" - a special subtype of cargo, which includes passenger and truck tires
and wheels. The total weight of passenger tires and wheels must not exceed 45 kg per piece, and
the total weight of truck tires and wheels must not exceed 105 kg per piece.
✔ "Pallet" is a special subtype of cargo that is placed and secured on a pallet with
transportation straps, fastening straps or wrapped in stretch
film, with a height of no more than 170 cm and an actual weight of no more than 1000 kg (in
some cases, with a height of no more than 220 cm and an actual weight of no more than
1100 kg).
The cost of transportation of the listed types of shipments is determined according to
the tariffs for the delivery of documents, parcels, cargo, tires, disks and pallets, which are
posted on the Site.
7.4. Pallet - a wooden, plastic or metal structure (factory or handmade) with a groove
intended for transportation of shipments by means of warehouse vehicles, not less than 8 cm
high; the size of one side of the base of this structure is not less than 60 cm, and the other side is
from 60 cm to 200 cm (inclusive).
7.5. The actual weight and height of the pallet (base) is included in the height and actual
weight of the pallet. The only exceptions are shipments for which crating is ordered. The
actual weight of such shipments is determined without the crate, and the pallet height is
determined by the extreme points of the crate.
7.6. If the pallet has an irregular geometric shape (e.g., protruding parts), the pallet weight is
measured at the extreme points of the pallet's dimensions.
7.7. Pallets are divided into standard and non-standard. A standard pallet is a pallet with a
pallet area (base/edge points) of no more than 2 m2.
7.8. The weight and cost of standard pallets is determined by the pallet area and
To determine the weight of a shipment (documents, parcels, cargo), the higher value of the actual or volumetric weight is taken into account8

actual weight according to the pallet delivery rates posted on the Website.
Pallet base area, m2 Actual weight, kg Pallet weight, kg
from 0 to 0.49 up to 500 204
from 0.50 to 0.99 up to 500 408
from 1.00 to 1.49 up to 750 612
from 1.50 to 2.0 up to 1000 816
7.9. The weight of non-standard pallets with a pallet area (base/edge points) of more than 2 m2
is measured at the edge points of the pallet dimension according to the formula:
Pallet weight = Base area [m2] x 425 kg
7.10. To calculate the cost of non-standard pallets, the pallet weight and actual weight are
determined and the higher value is selected. In this case, the cost is calculated in accordance
with the tariffs for delivery services of the "Cargo" type of shipment posted on the Website.
7.11. Bulk cargo in bags is placed on the pallet as follows: a sheet of corrugated cardboard is
placed on the pallet, at least 5 cm is left from the edge of the pallet to the surface of the bag,
and the formed cargo on the pallet is wrapped in corrugated cardboard.
7.12. For the transportation of containers with liquids placed on a pallet, there are restrictions
on the number of stacking rows in accordance with the markings on the shipment. In the
absence of appropriate labeling, it is allowed to form a shipment in no more than two rows in
height.
7.13. If the shipment and pallet are an integral part of the shipment (crates, boxes with legs,
etc.) and do not require additional crating, it is accepted as "Cargo", the actual weight and
height of the base are included in the dimensions and weight of the shipment.
7.14. Shipments in reusable containers "Plastic box" or "Box for automobile glass", which
are subject to return, are accepted as shipments of the type
"Cargo.
8.INFORMATION REQUIRED TO PROCESS THE SHIPMENT
8.1. Type of the main service:
✔ "Address-Address2";
✔ "Branch-Branch3";
✔ "Address-Branch";
✔ "Branch-Address";
✔ "Branch-Post Office4";
✔ "Address-Post Office"
✔ "Poshtoma-Poshtomat"
✔ "Pochtomat-Adresa"
✔ "Post Office"
8.2. Information about the Sender:
✔ for legal entities and individual entrepreneurs - name (EDRPOU) / full n a m e ,
address / branch office post office і mobile phone numbercell phone number
of the contact person з
The term "address" (hereinafter referred to as "address") means the entrance of an apartment building, the door of a private house, the gate of a
warehouse at the address indicated in the express waybill
The term "branch" means the number and/or address of the branch of "Nova Poshta" LLC
The term "post office" refers to the number and/or address of the post office of "Nova Poshta" LLC9

subject to clause 9.2 of the Terms;
✔ for individuals - full name, address/branch/post office and mobile phone number.
8.3. City of delivery of the shipment.
8.4. Information about the Recipient:
✔ for legal entities and individual entrepreneurs - name (USREOU) / f u l l n a m e ,
address / branch / post office and mobile phone number of the contact person;
✔ For individuals - full name, address / branch / post office, mobile phone number.
8.5. Information about the shipment:
✔ number of seats;
✔ actual and volumetric weight;
✔ the announced cost;
✔ description of the content.
8.6. Service payer.
8.7. Payment method (cash/cashless).
8.8. Additional services.
8.9. Other information that may affect the quality, timing, and cost of services.
8.10. You can change the data in the express waybill at the branch (in the region of the
Sender or the Recipient; you can find out the list of settlements included in a particular
region by calling the Contact Center) or by making changes yourself in the business office /
mobile application / API; by calling the Contact Center. Changing the data in the express
waybill at the branch is possible only if the express waybill number and one of the
documents are provided in accordance with clause 12.2 of these Terms.
9.CONDITIONS FOR ACCEPTING SHIPMENTS AT THE BRANCH OF "NOVA POSHTA"
9.1. The sender provides a properly packed shipment or has the option of using the additional
service "Packing".
9.2. The sender, represented by a representative of a legal entity and a representative of an
individual entrepreneur, provides a business customer identification card to the representative
of "NOVA POCTA" LLC when registering the shipment at the post office. If the representative
does not have a business customer identification card when he/she first visits the post office,
he/she shall provide the original power of attorney containing the mandatory details in
accordance with the requirements of "NOVA POST "5 and one of the identity documents
specified in the power of attorney, namely
✔ passport of a citizen of Ukraine,
✔ passport of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad,
✔ a driver's license issued in Ukraine.
The original powers of attorney submitted to the representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC will
not be returned.
9.3. The sender in case of independent creation of the express waybill (in the business office or
in case of using the API) and its provision in printed form to the representative of the LLC
"Nova Poshta" may not provide the above documents in accordance with clause 9.2 of these
Terms and Conditions.
9.4. If there is any doubt that the shipment contains items from the category of prohibited
items (shipments in boxes, crates, bags, wrapped in opaque film or other wrapping materials
that hide the contents, without labeling, any identification, acrid smell, etc.), a representative of
"Nova Poshta" LLC has the right to demand the shipment to be provided for inspection and
verification of the contents.
In case of refusal and/or detection of prohibited content of the shipment, the representative
of LLC
"Nova Poshta" has the right to refuse to process the shipment and organize its transportation.
For more information on the list of mandatory details of the power of attorney, please follow the link10

9.5. The sender provides information for processing the shipment in accordance with Section 8
of these Terms.
9.6. If the Sender is the payer of services and the form of payment is cash, he/she pays the
money to the representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC.
9.7. The Sender is obliged to inform the Recipient of the express waybill number, delivery time
and familiarize the Recipient with these Terms.
9.8. Service without queues for category customers:
✔ Elderly people (a representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC has the right to check the
pension certificate);
✔ Persons with disabilities (regardless of the disability group; a representative of "Nova
Poshta" LLC has the right to check a pension certificate or a document confirming the
disability);
✔ persons accompanying children under the age of 3;
✔ pregnant women;
✔ Participants in military operations (upon presentation of the relevant certificate);
✔ Servicemen of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (upon presentation of a service certificate
of a serviceman of the State Protection Department of Ukraine or
any other certificate confirming that the person is currently in military service);
✔ volunteers of territorial defense (under subject to upon
presentation of the relevant certificate).
10. CONDITIONS FOR PICKING UP THE SHIPMENT AT THE SENDER'S
ADDRESS
10.1. A representative of " NOVA POST" LLC can get to the Sender's address on foot (for
shipments weighing no more than 30 kg).
10.2. It is possible to drive a car of "Nova Poshta" LLC to the address of the Sender (for
shipments weighing more than 30 kg) at a distance of no more than 50 meters.
10.3. The sender provides a properly packed shipment in accordance with Section 4 of these
Terms.
10.4. The sender provides information for processing the shipment in accordance with Section 8
of these Terms.
10.5. Pickup dispatch is carried out by a representative of OF THE COMPANY
"NOVA POST", if the Sender is a service payer:
✔ in cash on the condition that the total amount payable for the services of "Nova
Poshta" LLC does not exceed UAH 50,000 (fifty thousand) per one
express waybill;
✔ cashless form of payment for any total amount payable for the services of "Nova
Poshta" LLC.
The Payer of services can be the Recipient or the Sender in cash or non-cash form of payment.
10.6. If the total weight of the shipment under the express waybill is more than 30 kg, the
Sender shall independently ensure that the shipment is loaded into the body of the vehicle of
LLC
"NOVA POSHTA".
10.7. The Sender informs the Recipient of the express waybill number, delivery time and
familiarizes the Recipient with these Terms.
10.8. The sender delivers the properly packed and labeled shipment to the representative of
"Nova Poshta" LLC during the working day (or within the appropriate time interval for which the
collection is ordered) and according to a special schedule on weekends and holidays. The
working hours are posted on the Website.
10.8.1. If the Shipper orders a pickup during one of the time intervals, the Shipper shall
ensure that the shipment is properly packed before the start of the time interval.11

10.8.2. The sender must be at the collection address during the specified collection time
interval.
10.9. If there is any doubt that the shipment contains items from the category of prohibited
items (shipments in boxes, crates, bags, wrapped in opaque film or other wrapping materials
that hide the contents, without labeling, any identification, acrid smell, etc.), a representative of
"Nova Poshta" LLC has the right to demand the shipment to be provided for inspection and
verification of the contents.
In case of refusal and/or detection of prohibited contents of the shipment, the
representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC has the right to refuse to process the shipment and organize
its transportation.
10.10. The representative of "NOVA POST" LLC does not provide an invoice to the
Sender's address. To receive an invoice, the Sender must contact the nearest branch.
10.11. The maximum time for picking up shipments by a representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC
should not exceed 15 (fifteen) minutes, unless an additional service is ordered
"Calling the machine".
11. CONDITIONS FOR SENDING ITEMS FROM A POST OFFICE
11.1. The sender can send from a post office when creating an express waybill in the mobile
application of "NOVA POST" LLC.
11.2. To see the list of settlements where the postal service is available, please follow the link:
https://novaposhta.ua/poshtomat/send/
11.3. The postal service accepts items up to 20 kg of actual weight per item, no larger than
40×60×30 cm and with a declared value of up to UAH 10,000. The dimensions are indicated
including packaging.
11.4. Sending from a post office is available for items that are not included in the list of items
prohibited for transportation in accordance with Section 5 of these Terms.
11.5. The sender can send only properly packed items from the post office in accordance with
section 4 of these Terms or use the additional service
"Packaging". You can order the additional service "Packaging" in the mobile application of LLC
"NOVA POSHTA". The sender creates an online document and activates the service by choosing
the size of the shipment and placing the unpacked shipment in the post office box. Labeling is
not required for sending from a post office.
11.6. To send items from a post office, the Sender needs to download the mobile application of
"Nova Poshta" LLC and log in.
11.7. To send shipments from a post office, the Sender must create an express waybill in the
mobile application of "NOVA POST" LLC, specifying the information in accordance with Section 8
of these Terms and Conditions. No more than one shipment per express waybill can be issued
from a post office.
11.8. An express waybill with a selected postal item can only be sent from a post office
within 12 hours of its creation. After 12 hours from the date of creation of the express
waybill with the selected postage from the post office, it is automatically deleted.
11.9. If the Sender is the payer of the delivery services, the Sender must pay for the delivery
services using a bank card in the mobile application of "Nova Poshta" LLC after creating an
express waybill. A post office box cannot be opened without payment for delivery services if the
Sender is the payer of the services.
11.10. To send a parcel from a post office, the Bluetooth, geolocation and mobile Internet
functions must be enabled on the Sender's smartphone with the NOVA POST mobile application
installed and the express waybill created in it. The post office cell is opened by the Sender using
the mobile application of " NOVA POST" LLC. After loading the shipment into the cell, the Sender12

must close the cell and confirm the download by clicking on the corresponding button in the
mobile application of "Nova Poshta" LLC.
11.11. After the representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC picks up the shipment, which was
previously placed by the Sender in the mailbox, the Recipient receives an SMS notification about
the start of the shipment's movement to the Recipient.
11.12. If the size of the shipment does not fit into the post office box or if there were
technical malfunctions of the post office during placement, the Sender has the option to send
the shipment from the branch or order an address pickup.
11.13. If the Sender has any difficulties with creating an express waybill, opening a cell,
loading a shipment into a cell, or other problems when sending from a post office, the Sender
can contact the Contact Center to resolve the issue promptly.
11.14. The working hours of post offices are available on the Website.
11.15. Only persons who live in apartments or use non-residential premises located in an
apartment building can send mail from a post office installed in the entrance of an apartment
building.
12. CONDITIONS FOR RECEIVING THE SHIPMENT AT THE BRANCH
12.1. Provide the representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC with the number of the express waybill (a
mandatory condition for cases provided for in clauses 12.4, 12.5 of these Terms) or the mobile
phone number to which the SMS notification of the arrival of the shipment was received.
12.2. The Recipient, a natural person or an individual entrepreneur, shall present to the
representative of "Nova Poshta" any of the following documents confirming the identity of the
Recipient specified in the express waybill, namely
12.2.1. Passport of a citizen of Ukraine.
12.2.2. Temporary certificate of a citizen of Ukraine.
12.2.3. Permanent residence permit.
12.2.4. Temporary residence permit.
12.2.5. A refugee certificate issued in Ukraine.
12.2.6. Passport of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad.
12.2.7. A temporary certificate confirming the identity of a citizen of Ukraine.
12.2.8. A stateless person's identity card for traveling abroad.
12.2.9. A passport of a foreign citizen in which information about the person is indicated in
Cyrillic and/or Latin alphabet. If another alphabet is used, an apostille (an official translation of
the passport into Ukrainian) is required.
12.2.10. Passport of a citizen of Ukraine in the form of an electronic version from a mobile
application
"ACTION".
12.2.11. A passport of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad in the form of an electronic
version from the mobile application "Diia".
12.3. To receive shipments with an announced value of less than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand),
the Recipient shall present any document in accordance with the following list:
✔ a driver's license issued in Ukraine;
✔ pension certificate;
✔ student card;
✔ migrant card;
✔ an identity card for returning to Ukraine;
✔ a diplomatic passport of Ukraine;
✔ service passport of Ukraine;
✔ refugee travel document;
✔ certificate of a combatant;13

✔ ID card of a person in need of additional protection;
✔ travel document of a person granted additional protection;
✔ ID card of a person in need of temporary protection;
✔ business client identification card;
✔ a customer card of plastic or electronic (from a mobile application) format, provided
that the following conditions are met:
- the phone number and full name of the Recipient in the express waybill match the
data of the customer's card;
- The recipient is an individual.
✔ one of the documents in accordance with clauses.  12.2.1 - 12.2.11 of these Terms.
12.4. Without documents confirming the Recipient's identity, it is allowed to
issue shipments in such cases:
12.4.1. If the declared value is less than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand) and
the following conditions are met simultaneously:
✔ The recipient can name the number of the express waybill;
✔ the shipment contains an unpaid money transfer (including delivery services)
totaling less than UAH 5,000 (five thousand).
12.4.2. If the declared value of the shipment is less than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand) and
the following conditions are met simultaneously:
✔ The recipient can name the number of the express waybill;
✔ The recipient can call the SMS code6 that was sent to the phone number specified in the
express waybill in the "recipient" block.
12.5. In order to receive a shipment with an announced value of UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand)
or more, the Recipient must provide any document in accordance with the following list:
✔ an identity document in accordance with the list specified in clauses. 12.2.1 -
12.2.11 and name the SMS code that was sent to the phone number indicated
in the express waybill in the "recipient" block, or confirm receipt of the shipment by
accepting an incoming call to the Recipient's phone number. If the SMS code is not
received or all attempts to identify the Client by SMS have been used, the identification
is performed by phone. The number of available SMS sends is 2, the validity of the SMS
code is 5 minutes. Call identification is available after unsuccessful attempts at SMS
identification;
✔ a passport of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad in the form of an electronic version
from the mobile application "Diia". In order to verify the document, the representative
"Nova Poshta" LLC has the right to scan a dynamic code (barcode\QR code) from an
electronic document in the "Diia" mobile application.
12.6. At the request of a representative of "NOVA POST" LLC, the recipient is obliged to present
a passport of a citizen of Ukraine or other document confirming his/her age, if the shipment
contains goods that are allowed to be sold to persons who have reached the age established by
law. In the absence of such a document, the representative of "NOVA POST" LLC has the right to
refuse to issue the shipment.
12.7. In order to receive a money transfer7 for any amount and/or send a money transfer
(including "Money Transfer" and "Payment Control") for the total amount of UAH 5,000 (five
thousand) or more, you must provide an identity document in accordance with the list specified
in clauses. 12.2.1 - 12.2.11 of these Terms or provide a passport of a citizen of Ukraine for
traveling abroad with the obligatory presentation of an account card of an individual taxpayer or
a certificate of assignment of an identification number of an individual taxpayer.
The possibility of issuing by SMS code is provided to the Recipient twice per express waybill
You can learn more about the terms and conditions of the money transfer by following the link on the official website of NovaPay LLC at novapay.ua14

For the purpose of verification (confirmation of identity), a representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC
has the right to
✔ scan a paper document,
✔ or scan a barcode from an electronic document in the Diia app,
✔ or attach an ID card to the POS terminal,
if the amount of transfers (sending and receiving) within one day exceeds:
✔ 4,999 UAH for cash transfers;
✔ 29,999 UAH for transfers using bank payment cards.
12.8. To an individual not indicated in the express waybill as the Recipient, and in the absence
of
of the ordered additional service "Delivery in person" - to provide a representative of the LLC
"Nova Poshta" express waybill number and one of these packages of documents:
12.8.1. An appropriately executed power of attorney and an identity document in
accordance with the power of attorney (passport of a citizen of Ukraine, passport of a citizen of
Ukraine for traveling abroad).
12.8.2. A duly executed power of attorney and an identity document in accordance with
the power of attorney, the list of which is specified in clauses 12.2 and 12.3, except for a
plastic or electronic customer card / passport of a citizen of Ukraine in the form of an electronic
version from the Diia mobile application / passport of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad in
the form of an electronic version from the Diia mobile application (for shipments with an
announced value of less than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand)).
12.8.3. At the same time, provide a passport of a citizen of Ukraine / passport of a citizen
of Ukraine for traveling abroad confirming the identity of the Recipient specified in the express
waybill and his/her own identity document in accordance with the list specified in clauses. 12.2
and 12.3, except for a plastic or electronic customer card/passport of a citizen of Ukraine in the
form of an electronic version from the mobile application "Diia"/passport of a citizen of Ukraine
for traveling abroad in the form of an electronic version from the mobile application "Diia", and
the express waybill number (for shipments with an announced value of less than UAH 30,000
(thirty thousand)).
12.8.4. Provide a document confirming the degree of kinship if the individual is a close
relative of the Recipient:
✔ the husband/wife provides his/her passport of a citizen of Ukraine (with a marriage
stamp or the original marriage certificate) or a passport of a citizen of Ukraine/passport
of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad of the Recipient specified in the express waybill,
except for a plastic or electronic customer card / passport of a citizen of Ukraine in the form of
an electronic version from the mobile application "Diia"/ passport of a citizen of Ukraine for
traveling abroad in the form of an electronic version from the mobile application "Diia" (for
shipments with an announced value of less than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand));
✔ the parent provides his/her passport of a citizen of Ukraine (with a stamp on the degree
kinship) or presents the child's birth certificate and documents that
Identity documents of parents in accordance with the list specified in clauses. 12.2-12.3, except
for a plastic or electronic customer card / passport of a citizen of Ukraine in the form of an
electronic version from the mobile application "Diia" / passport of a citizen of Ukraine for
traveling abroad in the form of an electronic version from the mobile application "Diia" (for
shipments with an announced value of less than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand));
✔ a guardian can receive a shipment intended for an incapacitated person
to a relative by providing a document from the guardianship authorities and an identity document
a guardian according to the list specified in clauses 12.2 and 12.3, except for a plastic or
electronic customer card / passport of a citizen of Ukraine in the form of an electronic version
from the "Diia" mobile application / passport of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad in the
form of an electronic version from the "Diia" mobile application (for shipments with an
announced value of less than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand)).
If the Recipient according to the express waybill is a married woman, and the passport of a
relative (husband, father, mother) contains her maiden name, an additional document is a 15

marriage certificate or passport of the citizen of Ukraine of the Recipient specified in the16

express waybill.
12.8.5. Without documents confirming the Recipient's identity, the shipment can be
received in accordance with the requirements of clause 12.4 of these Terms.
12.9. For an individual who is not indicated in the express waybill as the Recipient, provide the
representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC with the original death certificate of the Recipient and a
document confirming the degree of kinship in accordance with clause 12.8.4. The condition is
valid if the additional service "Hand delivery" is ordered. Receipt of the shipment is possible if
the date of creation of the shipment precedes the date of death of the Recipient indicated in the
death certificate.
12.10. The Recipient, represented by a representative of a legal entity and a
representative of an individual entrepreneur, provides a business customer identification card8 to
the representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC (the Recipient's phone number and full name in the
express waybill must match the data on the identification card; to receive shipments with an
announced value of less than
UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand)) or the document and the original power of attorney containing
the mandatory details in accordance with the requirements of "Nova Poshta" LLC. The power of
attorney is provided by the representative during the first visit to the post office, and from the
next visit until the end of the power of attorney, the representative only needs to present the
document proving his/her identity and specified in the power of attorney:
✔ passport of a citizen of Ukraine (except for the electronic version from the mobile
application
"ACTION");
✔ passport of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad (except for the electronic
version from the mobile application "Diia");
✔ driver's license issued in Ukraine (except for the electronic version from the "DIYA"
mobile application; for shipments with an announced value of less than thirty thousand (30,000)
UAH).
The original powers of attorney submitted to the representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC will
not be returned.
12.11. Depending on the form of payment, pay the representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC
for the services rendered.
12.12. Service without queues for category customers:
✔ Elderly people (a representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC has the right to check the
pension certificate);
✔ Persons with disabilities (regardless of disability group; representative of "Nova
Poshta" LLC) has the the right to check pension certificate or
document, that
confirming disability);
✔ persons accompanying children under the age of 3;
✔ pregnant women;
✔ Participants in military operations (upon presentation of the relevant certificate);
✔ Servicemen of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (upon presentation of a service certificate
of a serviceman of the State Protection Department of Ukraine or
any other certificate confirming that the person is currently in military service);
✔ volunteers of territorial defense defense volunteers (under subject to
upon presentation of the relevant certificate).
12.13 "Nova Poshta" LLC has the right to suspend or limit the provision of services (including
services) to the Customer for the period of verification of the Customer's fulfillment of the
terms of the Agreement, in case of reasonable doubts about the improper fulfillment by the
Customer and/or reasonable suspicion of violation of the terms of the said Agreement.
"NOVA P O S H T A " LLC17

reserves the right to change the conditions for receiving shipments in order to store the shipment
and/or deliver it to the proper recipient.
13. TERMS OF DELIVERY OF THE SHIPMENT TO THE RECIPIENT'S ADDRESS
13.1. Readiness of the Recipient or his/her representative to receive the shipment at the
delivery address during the working day (or within the relevant time interval for which the
delivery was ordered) and according to a special schedule on weekends and holidays. The
working hours are posted on the Website.
13.2. Correct address and current mobile phone number of the Recipient (provided by the
Sender).
13.3. The representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC has the opportunity to get to the Recipient's
address on foot (for shipments weighing no more than 30 kg).
13.4. It is possible to drive a car of "Nova Poshta" LLC to the Recipient's address (for shipments
weighing more than 30 kg) at a distance of no more than 50 meters.
13.5. If the weight of the shipment is more than 30 kg and the additional service "Lift to the
floor" is not ordered, the Recipient independently ensures the unloading of the shipment from
the body of the vehicle of "Nova Poshta" LLC.
13.6. If you order the additional service "Floor delivery", the shipment is delivered only to the
Recipient's door (apartment, office, warehouse). The representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC does
not move the shipment around the Recipient's premises.
13.7. When delivering shipments to the address, if the "Hand delivery" service is not ordered
and the declared value of the shipment is less than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand), the shipment
is delivered to the person at the address indicated in the express waybill.
13.8. When delivering shipments to the address, if the "Hand delivery" service is ordered or the
declared value of the shipment is more than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand), the shipment is
delivered only after providing the representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC with one of the
documents confirming the identity of the Recipient specified in the express waybill:
✔ passport of a citizen of Ukraine;
✔ temporary certificate of a citizen of Ukraine;
✔ passport of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad;
✔ a passport of a foreign citizen with personal data in Cyrillic and/or Latin alphabet. If
another alphabet is used, an apostille (official translation
passports in Ukrainian).
13.9. In public places, the delivery of shipments to an individual, individual entrepreneur or
representative of a legal entity is carried out only after providing the representative of "Nova
Poshta" LLC with one of the documents confirming the identity of the Recipient specified in the
express waybill:
✔ passport of a citizen of Ukraine;
✔ temporary certificate of a citizen of Ukraine;
✔ passport of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad;
✔ a passport of a foreign citizen with personal data in Cyrillic and/or Latin alphabet. If
another alphabet is used, an apostille (official translation
passports in Ukrainian).
13.9.1. If the declared value of the shipment is less than UAH 30,000 (thirty thousand), the
shipment shall be issued in public places on the basis of the following documents:
✔ driver's license issued in Ukraine;
✔ pension certificate;
✔ or one of the documents in accordance with clause 12.9 of these Terms.
13.10. Delivery of the shipment is carried out by a representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC if18

The recipient is the payer of services:
✔ in cash on the condition that the total amount to be paid does not exceed UAH 50,000
(fifty thousand) per express waybill,
by bank transfer for any total amount payable for the services of "Nova Poshta" LLC.
The Payer of services can be the Recipient or the Sender in cash or non-cash form of payment.
13.11. At the request of a representative of "NOVA POST" LLC, the recipient is obliged to
present a passport of a citizen of Ukraine or other document confirming his/her age, if the
shipment contains goods that are allowed to be sold to persons who have reached the age
established by law. In the absence of such a document, the representative of "NOVA POST" LLC
has the right to refuse to issue the shipment.
13.12. If the additional service "Hand delivery" is ordered, an individual who is not
indicated in the express waybill as the Recipient must provide the representative of "Nova
Poshta" LLC with the original death certificate of the Recipient and a document confirming the
degree of kinship in accordance with clause 12.8.4. Receipt of the shipment is possible if the date
of creation of the shipment precedes the date of death of the Recipient specified in the death
certificate.
13.13. To send a money transfer9 (including "Money Transfer" and "Payment Control") for the total
amount of UAH 5,000 (five thousand) or more, you must provide an identity document in
accordance with the list specified in clauses. 12.2.1 - 12.2.5 of these Terms or provide a passport
of a citizen of Ukraine for traveling abroad with the obligatory presentation of an individual
taxpayer registration card or a certificate of assignment of an individual taxpayer identification
number.
For the purpose of verification (confirmation of identity), a representative of "Nova
Poshta" LLC has the right to take a photo of a paper document if the amount of
transfers (sending and receiving) within one day exceeds the amount of money:
✔ 4,999 UAH for cash transfers;
✔ UAH 29,999 for transfers using bank payment cards.
13.14. The time spent by the representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC at the Recipient's address is not
should not exceed 15 minutes.
13.15. During martial law in the country, if the shipment cannot be delivered due to the
Recipient's absence at the delivery address or for other reasons beyond the Forwarder's control,
the undelivered shipment shall be delivered to the nearest branch or post office (if there are free
cells), about which the Forwarder shall notify the Recipient by sending a text message to the
mobile application or, in its absence, to the Recipient's mobile phone number specified in the
express waybill of the undelivered shipment.
14. TERMS OF DELIVERY AND RECEIPT OF THE SHIPMENT AT THE POST OFFICE
14.1. The postal service accepts items up to 20 kg of actual weight per item, no larger than
40×60×30 cm and with a declared value of up to UAH 10,000. The dimensions are indicated
including packaging.
14.2. If the size of the package does not fit into the post office box or if there was a technical
malfunction of the post office box during placement, delivery is made to the nearest branch.
14.3. No more than one shipment per express waybill can be sent to a post office.
14.4. After placing the shipment by a representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC in the cell
You can learn more about the terms and conditions of the money transfer by following the link on the official website of NovaPay LLC at novapay.ua19

the Recipient is sent a notification of delivery of the package.
14.5. To receive the shipment at the post office, the Recipient needs to download the
mobile application of "Nova Poshta" LLC and log in using the mobile phone number specified
in the express waybill.
14.5. In order to receive the shipment, the Recipient's smartphone with the installed mobile
application of "Nova Poshta" LLC must have Bluetooth, geolocation, and mobile Internet
functions enabled.
14.6. To receive the shipment, you must first use a bank card on the Site in the "Track" section
or in the mobile application of "Nova Poshta" LLC, pay for delivery services and/or make a money
transfer, if you have ordered the additional service "Money transfer" or "Payment control".
14.7. The Recipient opens the post office box using the mobile application of "Nova Poshta"
LLC. Upon receipt of the shipment, the Recipient must close the cell.
14.8. If the Recipient does not pick up the shipment from the post office within 3 calendar days
of storage (the day of loading the shipment into the post office is not taken into account), the
next calendar day the shipment will be sent to the nearest branch.
14.9. If the shipment was moved to the branch and the Recipient made an online payment and
the shipment was forwarded by the Sender, the Recipient who made an online payment by
express waybill will be refunded within three to five banking days.
14.10. The working hours of post offices are available on the Website.
14.11. Only persons who live in apartments or use non-residential premises located in the
entrance of an apartment building can order delivery to a post office and receive items.
15. ADDITIONAL SERVICES
15.1. Additional service is a service provided in addition to the main service for an
additional fee. Additional services of "Nova Poshta" LLC include:
15.1.1. "Calling a car" involves providing the Sender with a suitable vehicle for loading for an
agreed period of time. Connection to the service is made through a personal manager. The
service is connected to customers with a non-cash form of payment. The service is ordered by
creating a request for a car call through the business account / API.
15.1.2. "Storage" means that the shipment is stored at the branch for 30 calendar days,
excluding the day of receipt at the Recipient's branch. For 7 calendar days for Documents,
Cargoes, Tires and Disks, Parcels and 3 calendar days for Pallets, excluding the day of receipt of
the shipment at the Recipient's branch, the shipment is stored without additional payments. For
storage of the shipment from the 8th to the 30th calendar day for Documents, Cargo, Tires and
Disks, Parcels, and from the 4th to the 30th calendar day for Pallets, a storage fee is charged.
If the shipment is not claimed by the Recipient or the Sender within 30 calendar days, such
shipment is considered unclaimed, and the liability of "Nova Poshta" LLC to the Sender and the
Recipient for the safety of the shipment is terminated. LLC
"Nova Poshta" has the right to dispose of such a shipment at its sole discretion, in particular to
compensate for the cost of storage and transportation of this shipment.
15.1.3. "Money transfer "10 provides for the control of the Recipient's transfer of funds to the
Sender. The service is provided by a partner financial institution in accordance with the
agreement with "Nova Poshta" LLC.  Money transfer is possible
For more information on the terms of the money transfer, please follow the link20

send/receive only in national currency. The recipient of the money transfer can order payment
both at a branch of "Nova Poshta" LLC and to a bank card.
15.1.4. "Return delivery of documents" means the return to the Sender of documents, the list
of which is agreed in advance with the Recipient. The documents may be collected from the
Recipient at the time of delivery of the shipment or on another day, depending o n t h e
possibility of their provision. Collection of documents is an optional condition for the delivery of
the shipment to the Recipient, i.e. the shipment is delivered to the Recipient even if the
Recipient does not have return delivery documents. An express waybill with the additional
service "Return delivery of documents" is issued depending on the date and time of submission
of documents for shipment.
15.1.5. "Return delivery of subtypes of documents" means returning to the Sender those
subtypes of documents (power of attorney, express waybill with or without a seal, state-
standard consignment note with or without a seal, expenditure invoice with or without a seal)
that were specified when the shipment was processed. The documents are collected from the
Recipient when the shipment is handed over. By default, the collection of documents is a
prerequisite for the delivery of the shipment to the Recipient, and the representative of "NOVA
POST" LLC notifies the Sender of any non-standard situation and waits for his instructions for
further actions.
15.1.6. "Payment control" means controlling the transfer of funds by the Recipient to the
Sender in the amount specified in the relevant express waybill. The customer of the service may
be a business entity if it has an agreement with a financial institution partner of NovaPay LLC11.
15.1.7. "Document signature control" provides for the return to the Sender of documents
that were signed by the Recipient under the control of a representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC.
The service is provided to the Customer in the presence of a contract (agreement) for the
provision of the service.
15.1.8. "Delivery to supermarket chains" means delivery of parcels to shopping centers,
universal self-service stores (supermarkets, hypermarkets, etc.). The list of Recipients for this
service, delivery times and other terms of the service are indicated on the Website.
15.1.9. "Local Express provides for the delivery of a shipment during the current day within
one city and at certain time intervals. The service is available for ordering by the type of the main
service: "Address-Address" and "Address-Branch". The shipment is picked up at the address
subject to at least 5 (five) express waybills. The service is provided to the Customer in the
presence of a service agreement (contract). Detailed information is available on the Website.
15.1.10. "Hand delivery" means delivery of the shipment only to the person specified by the
Recipient in the express waybill. The service can be ordered only by the Sender, subject to the
signing of an agreement on the provision of services for the organization of transportation of
shipments with Nova Poshta LLC for shipments under one of the types of the main service:
"Branch-Address", "Address-Address". "Nova Poshta" LLC is not responsible for the delivery of
the shipment to the wrong Recipient if the Sender has provided incorrect or incomplete
information about the Recipient.
15.1.11. "Identification of the person" means verification of the Recipient's age at the time
of delivery of the shipment to him personally. The service can be ordered only by the Sender, the
Service is provided for shipments under one of the types of the main service:
"Branch-Address", "Address-Address", "Address-Branch", "Branch-Branch" (except for
acceptance and delivery points). In the process of delivery, a representative of Nova Poshta LLC
checks the Recipient's date of birth against the identity document containing the date of birth.
Issuance of the shipment is possible only upon
The agreement on the provision of money transfer services is concluded by the business entity with the financial institution-partner of NovaPay LLC
. NovaPay LLC and Nova Poshta LLC cooperate with each other under a money transfer agreement21

provided that the representative of Nova Poshta LLC enters the Recipient's date of birth into
the information system of Nova Poshta LLC when issuing the shipment. When ordering the
"Identification" service, the "Hand delivery" service is automatically activated. The
"Identification" service cannot be ordered separately from the "Hand delivery" service.
15.1.12. "Control of piece-by-piece transfer" provides for control by a representative of the
LLC
"Nova Poshta" is responsible for unpacking and handing over each unit of shipment to the
Recipient according to the waybill. The service is provided to the Customer in the presence of
a contract (agreement) for the provision of the service.
15.1.13. "Packing" means placing the shipment in the most suitable type of packaging that will
ensure its reliable transportation, warehousing, storage and protection. The shipment is packed
in packaging from the offered range of "Nova Poshta" LLC.
15.1.14. "Returnable packaging" means placing the shipment in a reusable container used
for transportation from the moment of registration of the shipment until the shipment is
delivered to the Recipient. Reusable containers are the property of "Nova Poshta" LLC and
are not transferred to third parties. The service is provided only in cargo departments.
15.1.15. "Palletizing" means the formation of a pallet by representatives of "Nova Poshta" LLC.
Palletizing means providing a pallet, placing shipments on it, grouping them into a single unit and
fixing them on the pallet with stretch film or other material. The service is provided only in cargo
departments.
15.1.16. "Redirection" means changing the delivery address of an already registered shipment
within the same locality or within the country. The service can be ordered by both the Sender and
the Recipient. The service for one shipment can be ordered no more than twice. The
"Forwarding" service is not available for ordering to the Sender during the period when the item
is in the post office and for which the Recipient has made an online payment until the item is
moved to the branch according to its storage period, if the Recipient does not receive it in the
post office
● the period of storage and movement of the shipment in the post office: 1st day of loading
into the post office, 2nd, 3rd, 4th day - storage in the post office, 5th day - unloading from
the post office, 5th/6th day of arrival at the nearest post office to the post office.
15.1.17. "Lift to the floor" means lifting the shipment to the floor during delivery to the
Recipient's address. The actual weight of one place of departure should not exceed 100 kg,
and the distance from the parking lot of the vehicle of "Nova Poshta" LLC to the building
should be 50 m. The service can be ordered by the Sender during the registration of the
shipment. If the weight of the shipment under one express waybill is no more than 30 kg
(actual or volumetric weight determined by the greater value), the service is provided without
additional payment, without prior order and regardless of the Recipient's floor.
15.2. "Return of shipment" means a service that provides for the return of the
shipment to the Sender on the basis of an application for the return of the shipment or on
certain terms of cooperation with the Customer. The cost of the service is in accordance with
the basic tariffs posted on the Website.
The automatic return of shipments provides for the establishment of individual storage periods
for unclaimed shipments in the outlet (within 30 calendar days, excluding the day the shipment
is received at the Recipient's outlet) and ensures the automatic return of shipments to the
Sender upon expiration of the individual storage period. The Sender may order the automatic
return of shipments in the presence of a service agreement (agreement). Extension of the
individual storage period is available to order for both the Sender and the Recipient of the
shipment.
Exception:
● in case of delivery to a postal machine, if the automatic return period is set for the 5th
calendar day or more, then the movement is provided22

sending to the nearest branch after 3 calendar days of storage in the post office;
● in case of delivery of the shipment to the pickup point, a delay of up to 2 business
days is allowed for automatic return;
● if the Recipient refuses to receive the shipment, the shipment shall be automatically
returned on the day of refusal.
Detailed terms and conditions of the "Automatic Refund" are available on the Website.
15.3. "Transfer point" is a service not related to transportation, which provides the opportunity
to leave the shipment at any branch of "Nova Poshta" LLC with the subsequent transfer of the
shipment to the Recipient at the same branch/post office.
Within 7 calendar days for the types of shipments "Documents", "Cargo", "Tires-disks",
"Parcels" and 3 calendar days for the type of shipment "Pallet", excluding the day of receipt of
the shipment at the Recipient's office, the shipment is stored without additional payments.
For the storage of the shipment from the 8th to the 30th calendar day for the types of
shipments "Documents", " Cargo", "Tires-disks" ,
"For the Parcel type of shipment and from the 4th to the 30th calendar day for the Pallet
type of shipment, a storage fee is charged. If the shipment is not claimed by the Recipient
or the Sender within 30 calendar days, such shipment is considered unclaimed, and the
liability of "NOVA POCTA" LLC to the Sender and the Recipient for the safety of the
shipment is terminated. "Nova Poshta" LLC has the right to dispose of such a shipment at its
sole discretion, in particular to compensate for the cost of storage and transportation of this
shipment.
Terms of service at the post office:
You can order the service in the mobile application of "Nova Poshta" LLC when the Sender
chooses the same post office as the place of departure and the place of receipt. If the
Recipient does not pick up the shipment from the post office within 3 calendar days of
storage (the day of loading the shipment into the post office is not taken into account), the
next calendar day the shipment will be sent to the nearest branch.
Within 7 calendar days for the types of shipments "Documents", "Cargo", "Tires-disks", "Parcels"
and 3 calendar days for the type of shipment "Pallet", excluding the day of receipt of the
shipment at the Recipient's office, the shipment is stored without additional payments. For the
storage of the shipment from the 8th to the 30th calendar day for the types of shipments
"Documents", "Cargo", "Tires-disks",
"Parcels" and from the 4th to the 30th calendar day for the "Pallet" shipment type
a storage fee is charged. If the shipment is not claimed by the Recipient or the Sender within 30
calendar days, such shipment is considered to be
unclaimed, and the liability of "Nova Poshta" LLC to the Sender and the Recipient for the safety
of the shipment is terminated. "NOVA POST" LLC has the right to dispose of such a shipment at
its sole discretion, in particular to compensate for the cost of storage and transportation of this
shipment.
The service is available for items that are not included in the list of items prohibited for
transportation in accordance with Section 5 of these Terms. The service is available at post
offices from which you can send items. The list of locations is available at
https://novaposhta.ua/poshtomat/?city
15.4. "Reliable Purchase "12 is a service that provides information (statuses) to the financial
partner about the shipment when ordering a service for online services on the partner's
websites. The financial partner accumulates the funds paid for the shipment by the Recipient
until the relevant information (status) about the shipment is received for further transfer of
funds to the Sender or their return to the Recipient. Cost
For more information on the terms and conditions of the service, please follow the link23

The cost of the service includes the cost of the "Return of shipment" service. The service is
provided for shipments up to 30 kg and for Tire-Disk shipments (without weight restrictions) by
the type of the main service "Branch-Office" without the possibility to order additional services
"Forwarding, Money Transfer, Payment Control, and the Data Change service.
15.5. "International Express Delivery13 provides a range of services related to the international
express delivery of shipments from/to the territory of Ukraine. The service is provided by LLC
"NOVA POCTA GLOBAL" on the basis of agreements with LLC
"NOVA POSHTA".
15.6. "Fulfillment" involves the provision of a range of services for warehousing, packaging,
repackaging, labeling, etc. The service is provided by "NOVA POCTA logistic" LLC on the basis
of agreements concluded with "NOVA POCTA" LLC.
15.7. "Delivery of bank cards" means delivery of bank cards to the branch of "Nova Poshta"
LLC, signing of the package of documents by the Recipient, verification and identification of the
Recipient.
15.8. "Labeling printer" - allows the customer to purchase a labeling printer and label their
shipments independently in order to speed up and optimize business processes and save
time on dispatch. The sale of Zebra printers is available only to customers who are business
entities. You can order a printer from the manager of "Nova Poshta" LLC. Detailed
information is available on the website.
15.9. "Device replacement" involves providing the client with replacement equipment in
exchange for the old one that has failed.
15.10. is a service for individuals aimed at conducting secure and safe
online transactions between the Sender and the Recipient, as payment is made only in the
mobile application of Nova Poshta LLC. Detailed information is available on the Website
16. SERVICES
16.1. "Application programming interface" (API) is a set of convenient functions and tools that
allows you to access any service to obtain the necessary data, quickly integrate logistics
processes into any business and is a single entry point for all customers and services. The API is
intended to automate the Customer's work with "Nova Poshta" LLC. By using the API, the
Customer agrees to the Terms and Conditions posted on the Website.
16.2. "Business Account" means a personal page accessed through the official website of
"Nova Poshta" LLC and through which the Customer can independently create express waybills,
order additional services, etc. By using the Business Account, the Customer agrees to the
Terms and Conditions posted on the Website.
16.3. "The Mobile App is a software tool for quick access to information on the transportation
of shipments that works on smartphones running Android and iOS operating systems. The
program provides an opportunity to create an express waybill in a convenient form, find the
nearest branch, calculate the cost of the shipment, track its location, call a courier at a
convenient time, etc. By using the mobile application, the Customer agrees to the Terms and
Conditions posted on the Website.
16.4. "Restoration of the express waybill number" provides for the notification of the
express waybill number to the Recipient or the Sender after he/she applies to the LLC branch
"NOVA POSHTA". The service is provided subject to the provision of the documents specified
in clause 12.2 of these Terms.
16.5. "Tracking of the shipment" provides the ability to track the location of the shipment
using the express waybill number. The service can be used on the Website or via the mobile
application.
16.6. "Reschedule delivery" - the service allows you to postpone the receipt of the shipment
to
For more information on the terms of service, please follow the link24

a date and time interval convenient for the Recipient.
16.7. "Inspection of the shipment" - allows the Recipient to open the packaging of the
shipment in the branch, using a specially designated table or at the address, and check its
contents for the absence of external damage and compliance with the ordered goods in the
presence of a representative of "Nova Poshta" LLC. The shipment inspection process should
not exceed 5 minutes per shipment. "Nova Poshta" LLC does not provide the shipment for
inspection if it is provided for by the agreement with the Sender. It is prohibited to open the
package during the inspection:
✔ Connect devices, storage media or mechanisms that are not part of the
shipment (except for SIM cards, headphones, batteries, flash
The drive (to check for defects in the TV matrix)).
✔ Use consumables materials, that are є у the
shipment (for example, spraying test bottles of perfume, testing cosmetic products).
✔ To use the contents of the shipment with the Recipient's own belongings, including
storage media (it is forbidden to connect, read, copy).
✔ Pour fuels, lubricants, or other liquids into shipments that require their use.
✔ Set passwords for electrical devices that have this function (phones, tablets,
computers, or laptops).
✔ Tear off factory, advertising and information stickers from packaging and shipments
(except for stickers placed on the packaging of computer, electronic and optical equipment)
products in the places where they are opened).
✔ Open shipments in packages that have the following methods of first opening
control (only external inspection for damage is allowed):
- indicator seals (thread stitching on bags; metal or paper seals on cans, perforations
on the neck of lids on liquid containers, etc;)
- shrink film (excluding computer, electronic, optical products and accessories
included in their contents) is a type of packaging film characterized by the ability to
shrink under the influence of temperature and take the shape of the packaging product;
- Blister packaging is a container or case that is stamped to follow the shape and
dimensions of the item placed inside or creates a container necessary to hold the
product, which is made of heat-resistant plastic and may have a rigid printing, metal or
plastic backing;
- Laminated polyethylene packaging is packaging in which two or more layers of film
are combined into one under the influence of high temperatures, applied glue or solvent.
✔ Disassemble the shipment, except in cases involving the installation of a SIM card or
batteries without using a tool that is not included in the package
device.
✔ Conduct a inspection dispatch outside outside the of
the office (for shipments addressed to outlets).
In case of targeted delivery, it is also prohibited:
- disassemble the crate in which the shipment is packed;
- connect portable, household appliances to the power grid (it is allowed to inspect for
external defects and mechanical damage to the shipment);
- it is prohibited to try on clothes and shoes during targeted delivery.
In case of violation of these conditions of inspection, the shipment is non-refundable.
16.8. "Informing" means informing the Recipient and the Sender about the arrival, delivery
time and storage of the shipment. The service is provided in the format of an SMS message (or a
message in a mobile application or via the Viber network), a phone call or an e-mail on the basis
of a contractual relationship with NOVA25

POST." Changes to the settings of the "Notification" service apply to all shipments for which
the Customer is indicated as the Sender or Recipient in the express waybill.
16.8.1. If the shipment has arrived at the branch and the declared value of the shipment is UAH
30,000 (thirty thousand) or more, the text of the SMS message about the arrival of the shipment
does not indicate the number of the express waybill for the Recipient.
16.8.2. If more than 5 shipments with different express waybills arrive on the same day for the
same Recipient, the express waybill number is not indicated in the SMS message.
16.8.3. "Nova Poshta" LLC reserves the right to inform customers about unclaimed shipments.
16.9. "Change of data" allows the Sender to change the data specified in the express
waybill from the moment of its creation to the moment of receipt of the shipment by the
Recipient. The service can be ordered at the branch (in the region of the Sender or the
Recipient; you can find out the list of settlements included in a particular region by calling
the Contact Center) or by making changes in the business office / mobile application / API; by
calling the Contact Center. The service is not available for the Sender to order the service of
changing the data in the express waybill during the period when the shipment is in the post
office and for which the Recipient has made an online payment. Changing the data in the
express waybill in the branch is possible only if the number of this express waybill and one of
the documents in accordance with clause 12.2 of these Terms and Conditions are provided.
16.10. "Self-service allows the Sender to process the shipment at the post office without the
assistance of a representative of "NOVA POCTA" LLC. The shipment is processed in the self-
service area, which contains the necessary equipment for scanning packaged items and printing
markings. The sender leaves the processed parcels in the self-service area for further
transportation.
16.11. "Online payment" provides the ability to pay for delivery services and additional services
in the mobile application, business account and on the Website in the "Track" section by
technology
"Internet acquiring "14.
16.12. Refusal to receive the shipment provides the possibility for the Sender and the
Recipient to refuse to receive the shipment. The refusal is considered to be declared (submitted)
if the Sender and the Recipient of the shipment have submitted it in writing at the branch of
"Nova Poshta" LLC, by phone or by electronic means (including in the business office, Mobile
application). Refusal to receive the shipment can be submitted within 30 days from the date of
receipt of the shipment at the Recipient's o f f i c e . After the application (submission) by
the Sender and the Recipient of the refusal to
storage and transportation services for this shipment.
16.13. "Other recipient" is a service that allows you to receive a shipment from another
person at a post office or post office machine.
The service can only be used by the Recipient of the shipment using the mobile application of
"Nova Poshta" LLC for shipments with an announced value of less than UAH 30,000 (thirty
thousand) by the type of basic service "Branch-Office", "Address-Office", "Post Office-Branch",
"Branch-Post Office", "Address-Post Office",
"Pochtomat-Pochtomat" and if the Sender has not ordered an additional service
"Identification of the person" or "Personally in hand". The authorized representative can receive
the shipment at the post office using the mobile application of "Nova Poshta" LLC or by entering
the express waybill number and the SMS code that will be sent in the notification. The
authorized representative can receive the shipment at the post office using the mobile
application of LLC
The agreement on the provision of services for the transfer of funds through the technology of "Internet acquiring" is concluded by the business
entity with the financial institution-partner of NovaPay LLC. NovaPay LLC and Nova Poshta LLC cooperate with each other under the money transfer
receipt of the shipment, such shipment shall be considered an unclaimed shipment, and the
liability of "Nova Poshta" LLC to the Sender and the Recipient for the safety of the shipment
shall be terminated. "NOVA POST" LLC has the right to dispose of such a shipment at its sole
discretion, in particular to compensate for the cost of26

agreement27

"NOVA POSHTA".
16.14. "Easy Return" is a service that provides for the return of an already received
shipment to the Sender. Before ordering, the Recipient must agree on the service order with
the Sender, as well as the terms and conditions of the refund for their goods. The service can
be used only by the Recipient of the shipment using the mobile application or the business
office of "Nova Poshta" LLC within 14 days from the date of receipt of the shipment.
